Add glossary / content / en /edge-computing.md (#1467)
cncf/glossary: content/en/edge-computing.md

---
title: Edge Computing
status: Feedback Appreciated
category: Technology
---

## What it is

Edge computing generally involves shifting a portion of the storage and computing capacity from the primary data center to the actual data source.
The gathered data gets computed locally, i.e., on a factory floor, in a store, at a vast utility, or throughout a city, rather than sending it to a centralized data center for processing and analysis. 
The output of the computation at the edge is sent back to the primary data center.
The gadgets on your wrist and the computers that analyze traffic flow are just two examples of edge computing.

> All edge devices must evaluate the data they gather and convey timely insights without transmitting it to another server environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
We are getting into the challenges that edge computing faces. I don't think we need that in the "what it is" section.

## Problem it addresses

> Due to the enormous amounts of data that Internet of Things (IOT)devices create, data has become the next important asset for enterprises worldwide. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Over the past decade, we've seen an increasing amount of smart devices.
In some cases, real-time data processing is not only a nice-to-have but vital. 
Think of self-driving cars. 
Now imagine the data from sensors would have to be transferred to a data center for processing to be sent back to the vehicle so it can take action. 
The inherent network latency could be fatal. 
While this is an extreme example, most users wouldn't want to use a smart device unable to provide instant feedback. 
Today's world of the Internet of Things (IoT) calls for a new paradigm: edge computing. 
```
I took some of your points but rewrote this section with an example to visualize it better.

> For critical business strategies,firms also increasingly need to examine the data as fast as possible, But Organisations are adjusting for the latency and performance issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
already captured above

> Previously, businesses would transfer all their monitoring data to a corporate data center or the cloud for processing, analysis, and storage. However, as the IoT has expanded, the amount of data available makes this method impractical.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
same here

> So, moving the computing infrastructure physically closer or next to the edge where the data creates will solve the problem of performance and latency. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
I don't think edge computing is about moving the infrastructure closer but about having some of the processing and analysis (not all!) happening on the device before being sent to the datacenter. The datacenter is where it used to be. Also, this is discussion is moving into the how it help.

> It is where edge computing comes into play.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

The gathered data is computed locally (e.g., on a factory floor, in a store, or throughout a city) rather than sent to a centralized data center for processing and analysis. 
These local processing units or devices represent the system's edge, whereas the data center is its center.
The output computed at the edge is then sent back to the primary data center for further processing.
Examples of edge computing include gadgets on our wrists or computers that analyze traffic flow.

## Problem it addresses

Over the past decade, we've seen an increasing amount of smart devices.
In some cases, real-time data processing is not only a nice-to-have but vital. 
Think of self-driving cars. 
Now imagine the data from sensors would have to be transferred to a data center for processing to be sent back to the vehicle so it can take action. 
The inherent network latency could be fatal. 
While this is an extreme example, most users wouldn't want to use a smart device unable to provide instant feedback. 
Today's world of the Internet of Things (IoT) calls for a new paradigm: edge computing. 

## How it helps

> IT architects have made their way back from the central data center to the logical Edge of the infrastructure, shifting storage and processing resources from the data center to the location where the data is created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
IT architects have made their way back from the central data center to the logical Edge of the infrastructure, 
shifting storage and processing resources from the data center to the location where the data is created.
```

> The concept of edge computing is simple; instead of delivering data to the data center, the data center migrates closer to the data. The processing and storage capacity of the data center situates as near as possible to the location of data generation (preferably in the same place).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The concept of edge computing is simple; instead of delivering data to the data center, 
the data center migrates closer to the data. 
The processing and storage capacity of the data center situates as near as possible to the location of data generation (preferably in the same place).
```

---
title: Edge Computing
status: Feedback Appreciated
category: Technology
---

## What it is

Edge computing is a [distributed system](/distributed-systems/) approach that shifts some storage and computing capacity from the primary data center to the data source.
The gathered data is computed locally (e.g., on a factory floor, in a store, or throughout a city) rather than sent to a centralized data center for processing and analysis. 
These local processing units or devices represent the system's edge, whereas the data center is its center.
The output computed at the edge is then sent back to the primary data center for further processing.
Examples of edge computing include gadgets on our wrists or computers that analyze traffic flow.

## Problem it addresses

> Over the past decade, we've seen an increasing amount of smart devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Over the past decade, we've seen an increasing amount of edge devices (e.g., mobile phones, smart watches, or sensors). 
```

In some cases, real-time data processing is not only a nice-to-have but vital. 
Think of self-driving cars. 

> Now imagine the data from sensors would have to be transferred to a data center for processing to be sent back to the vehicle so it can take action. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now imagine the data from the car's sensors would have to be transferred to a data center for processing before being sent back to the vehicle so it can react appropriately. 
```

The inherent network latency could be fatal. 
While this is an extreme example, most users wouldn't want to use a smart device unable to provide instant feedback. 
Today's world of the Internet of Things (IoT) calls for a new paradigm: edge computing. 

## How it helps

As described above, for edge devices to be useful, they must do at least part of the processing and analyzing locally to provide near real-time feedback to users. 
This is achieved by shifting some storage and processing resources from the data center to where the data is generated: the edge device.
Processed and unprocessed data is subsequently sent to the data center for further processing and storage.

> Processed and unprocessed data is subsequently sent to the data center for further analysis and storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Efficiency is the primary driver of edge computing. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In short, efficiency and speed are the primary drivers of edge computing. 
```

The output computed at the edge is then sent back to the primary data center for further processing.
Examples of edge computing include gadgets on our wrists or computers that analyze traffic flow.

## Problem it addresses

Over the past decade, we've seen an increasing amount of smart devices.
In some cases, real-time data processing is not only a nice-to-have but vital. 
Think of self-driving cars. 
Now imagine the data from sensors would have to be transferred to a data center for processing to be sent back to the vehicle so it can take action. 
The inherent network latency could be fatal. 
While this is an extreme example, most users wouldn't want to use a smart device unable to provide instant feedback. 
Today's world of the Internet of Things (IoT) calls for a new paradigm: edge computing. 

## How it helps

IT architects have made their way back from the central data center to the logical Edge of the infrastructure, 
shifting storage and processing resources from the data center to the location where the data is created.
shifting storage and processing resources from the data center to the location where the data is created.

> The concept of edge computing is simple; instead of delivering data to the data center, 

Author: Actually here I mentioned edge computing gives a scope of data not travelling to the data center and It can be processed at edge itself.
